---
Title: Advanced warning: probable remote code execution (RCE) in Spring, an extremely popular Java framework
Date: 2022-03-29 23:00
Category: Software Frameworks, Libraries, and Components
Tags: Java, Spring, High Severity
Slug: spring
Summary: An unconfirmed, but probable, remote code execution vulnerability is believed to exist in Spring, an extremely popular Java framework. This issue is likely easily exploited in common configurations. If confirmed, another notice will be sent out with a severity of 'critical'. While unconfirmed, the severity has been assigned 'high'.
---

This notice is intended to alert you that there _may_ be a significant issue with Spring which, if confirmed, would require immediate attention.

In the morning (New York time) on Wednesday, March 29th, 2022, a member of the security research team KnownSec posted a now-removed screenshot to Twitter purporting to show a trivially-exploited remote code execution vulnerability against Spring core, the most popular Java framework in use on the Internet. The researcher did not provide a proof-of-concept or public details. Since then, the Bug Alert team has been very closely monitoring activity and discussion in the Spring ecosystem.

During our initial investigation, the Bug Alert volunteer team noted that a [small change was introduced into the Spring codebase at roughly the same time](https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-framework/commit/7f7fb58dd0dae86d22268a4b59ac7c72a6c22529#diff-6c2618839eda075efe4491842d3673eab8fe1e342f6d9ddc2bbda8556e595864L153) which may be the patch for this particular remote code execution issue. The team believes RCE could be possible through this vector, and that this change is likely the change that is intended to resolve the issue in Spring. However, the Spring team has not yet commented and has locked/closed GitHub issues inquiring about the accuracy of the claims being made.

Just a few minutes ago, Cyber Kendra, the blog which was widely seen as the authoritiative source during the Log4j issue, [put up a new post](https://www.cyberkendra.com/2022/03/springshell-rce-0-day-vulnerability.html) detailing (translated) claims that have been circulating on Chinese blogs and media for the past several hours. This post also details some of the (unconfirmed) ways this vulnerability could be detected or mitigated.

This notice is intended to prepare you for the possibility that a trivially-exploited remote code execution vulnerability may be present in one of the most widely-used pieces of open-source software. The impact of this vulnerability, if it does exist, would be significant; far in excess of the impact of Log4j or Heartbleed.

If you have feedback (did you agree/disagree that a notice should have been sent?) or questions, please comment on the discussion thread linked below. This notice cost the project approximately $50 USD to send. If you would like to support the project, [you can learn more here](https://bugalert.org/content/pages/financial-support.html).
